README.MD

INFM 600 | THIS DATASET IS CREATED FOR THE INFM 600 INFORMATION ORGANIZATION ASSIGNMENT
VERSION: ENGLISH | 1.0 (OCT 2015)
DATA STATISTICS:
TOTAL 	N=2,300
SAMPLE: LANDLINE AND CELL PHONE
	LANDLINE: 	N=1500
	CELL PHONE: N=800
FIELD DATES: 11/23-12/21, 2010


FOCAL DATA FILE: RETRIEVED FROM PEW INTERNET DATASETS
The Pew Research Center's Internet & American Life Project. (2010). December 2010 - Social Side of the Internet [Data Set]. Retrieved from http://www.pewinternet.org/datasets/december-2010-social-side-of-the-internet/


DESCRIPTION
This dataset has been generated by the Princeton Survey Research Associates International for The Pew Research Center's Internet & American Life Project - 'Social Side of the Internet'. It primarily contains survey questions aiming to collect information from participants regarding their social activity over the internet. The survey interviewed 2250 american citizens in December 2010, aged 18 and older. The survey attempts to gather significant data to answer certain research questions related to the users' social presence, activity and preferences over the internet. The survey collects information about demographics, social media participation and the impact of internet on social presence.


DERIVATIVE DATASET [SUBSET]
Rahul Sarin. (2015). Impact of Internet on social groups. Unpublished Raw Data. Available from https://github.com/Rahul-Sarin/INFM-600.git

For this dataset, only information necessary to answering the research questions will be persisted, in the form of a subset data file. Sources such as data.howardcountymd.gov, opendata.howardcountymd.gov, WikiData and USCensus were also searched for similar datasets that could potentially be combined to answer new research questions. However, do to the lack of relative datasets available, an alternative subsetting approach has been adopted for the available dataset. The existing dataset will be segregated to obtain a subset which will be relevant for providing answers for the formulated research questions. The remaining data in the original dataset is rendered unfit for use and will therefore not be persisted in the new (subset) dataset.


LICENSE
The data in the INFM600 repository is distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (see 
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).


RESEARCH QUESTIONS
a) Are older adults (45+) more likely to believe that individuals can have a moderate to big impact on making their community a better place to live, than younger adults (18-44)?
For this research question, the relevant variables are: AGE and Q2.
AGE will be categorized into two subsets - Younger Adults, aged 18 to 44; and Older Adults, aged 45 and above.
Q2 will be segregated to consider only Moderate and Big Impact parameters, together as a single parameter.
A Two-Sample T-Test, which will analyze the impact of age categories on the community, will be suitable for predicting the results of this research question.
	
b) Are men more likely to believe in the impact of internet on local communities and society than women?
For this research question, the relevant variables are: Q16 and Sex.
Q16 is biforcated to only consider options Q16a. and Q16b, taken collectively as a single parameter.
A Two-Sample T-Test to analyze the impact of Gender on belief in the effectiveness of internet for social communities will be suitable for this research question.
	
c) What proportion of people are likely to have discovered social groups on the internet, that they otherwise would not have known about?
For this research question, the relevant variable is: Q25.
A simple graph, segregating people into two categories(1. discovered, and 2. Not discovered) will be sufficient to predict the results for this research question.
		
d) What proportion of people are likely to believe that internet makes it possible for them to be active in a greater number of social groups than would be possible for them without it?
For this research question, the relevant variables are: Q26.
A simple graph, segregating people into two categories (1. Believers, and 2. Non-believers) will be appropriate to perdit the results for this research question.

